Most things we want to
measure, for example,
temperature or pressure,
are continuously varying.
The sensor data must
be converted to
a digital format
before it can be
interpreted by a microprocessor.
Applying power to a
sensor so that it
produces a usable output
is called excitation.
Analog circuitry excites filters
and amplifies the
raw sensor signal,
a process called
signal conditioning.
Once processed in this way,
the signal is sent to an ADC,
short for analog-to-digital
converter.
The output of the
ADC is typically 8,
12, 16, or 24 bits.
Data from an ADC is usually
converted to a serial format,
such as I2C, SPI or RS-232.
Certain sensors,
humidity in particular,
incorporate the analog front end
on a single chip solution,
producing a digital output
easily connected to
a microprocessor.
The raw output of most sensors
is easily corrupted, hence,
signal conditioning circuitry is
located very close
to the sensor,
helping to shield against
external interference.
Once converted, the digital
signal can easily be
transmitted over great
distances with minimal error.
It is helpful to use
a microcontroller
for sensor systems.
This device consists of
a microprocessor with
a built-in analog-to-digital
converter.
In this course, you'll be using
the Cypress PSoC series
of microcontrollers.
This microcontroller also
contains amplifiers,
multiplexers, comparators,
timers, counters,
and shift registers.
It minimizes the number of
discrete components between
the sensor and the
microcontroller.
It is a hardware
programmable part.
You design electronic circuits
implemented as real hardware
inside the PSoC chip.
The hardware then interacts with
the code you write in
a seamless manner.
The design environment for
this part is called
PSoC creator,
and includes schematic capture
in addition to a code editor.
In addition, a handful
of inexpensive sensors
and actuators will be made
available for you to
purchase for this course,
and future ones that are
part of the specializations.
Normally, you would need
an expensive bench-top
digital oscilloscope
to take sensor readings,
such as this one from Agilent.
You may use this
type of scope if you
have access to one
at work or school.
However, for this class,
you may also purchase a much
lower cost oscilloscope,
that you can connect
to your laptop PC.
We give you some suggestions of
devices to purchase in
the course syllabus.
We hope you share our
enthusiasm for building things.
It's the best way to learn.